= The Twitter Ruby Gem
==== A Ruby wrapper for the Twitter REST and Search APIs
== What's New in 1.0
This gem has been completely rewritten for version 1.0 thanks to {contributions from numerous
people}[http://github.com/jnunemaker/twitter/blob/master/HISTORY.rdoc]. This rewrite breaks
compatibility with version 0.9.12 and earlier versions of the gem. Most notably, the
<tt>Twitter::Base</tt>, <tt>Twitter:Geo</tt>, <tt>Twitter::LocalTrends</tt>, and
<tt>Twitter::Trends</tt> classes {have all been
combined}[http://github.com/jnunemaker/twitter/commit/eb53872249634ee1f0179982b091a1a0fd9c0973] in
the <tt>Twitter::Client</tt> class. This gem will {display deprecation warnings and forward method
calls to the Client class}[http://github.com/jnunemaker/twitter/commit/192e5884f367750dbdca8471aa12385ed5b057ca]
whenever possible. In a handful of cases, method names were changed to resolve namespace conflicts.

  # Pre-1.0
  Twitter::Base.new.user('sferik').name
  # Post-1.0
  Twitter::Client.new.user('sferik').name

The <tt>Twitter::Search</tt> class has remained largely the same, however it no longer accepts a
query in its constructor. You can specify a query using the <tt>containing</tt> instance method,
which is aliased to <tt>q</tt>.

  # Pre-1.0
  Twitter::Search.new('query').fetch.results.first.text
  # Post-1.0
  Twitter::Search.new.q('query').fetch.results.first.text

The <tt>Twitter::OAuth</tt> class {has been removed}[http://github.com/jnunemaker/twitter/commit/d33b119cdfdaefb10db99e56d28dd69625816edf].
This class was just a wrapper to get access tokens via the {<tt>oauth</tt>
gem}[http://github.com/oauth/oauth-ruby]. Given that there are a variety of gems that do the same
thing ({<tt>twitter-auth</tt>}[http://github.com/mbleigh/twitter-auth],
{<tt>omniauth</tt>}[http://github.com/intridea/omniauth], and
{<tt>devise</tt>}[http://github.com/plataformatec/devise], to name a few) we decided to decouple
this functionality so you can use the authentication library of your choosing, or none at all. If
you would like to continue using the {<tt>oauth</tt> gem}[http://github.com/oauth/oauth-ruby],
simply require it and make the following changes:

  # Pre-1.0
  options = {:api_endpoint => 'https://api.twitter.com', :signing_endpoint => 'https://api.twitter.com', :sign_in => true}
  oauth = Twitter::OAuth.new(YOUR_CONSUMER_TOKEN, YOUR_CONSUMER_SECRET, options)
  signing_consumer = oauth.signing_consumer
  request_token = signing_consumer.get_request_token({:oauth_callback => CALLBACK_URL})
  redirect_to request_token.authorize_url
  oauth_token, oauth_token_secret = oauth.authorize_from_request(request_token.token, request_token.secret, 'verifier') # Use 'pin' instead of 'verifier' for PIN authentication

  # Post-1.0
  options = {:site => 'https://api.twitter.com', :request_endpoint => 'https://api.twitter.com', :authorize_path => '/oauth/authenticate'}
  signing_consumer = OAuth::Consumer.new(YOUR_CONSUMER_TOKEN, YOUR_CONSUMER_SECRET, options)
  request_token = signing_consumer.get_request_token({:oauth_callback => CALLBACK_URL})
  redirect_to request_token.authorize_url
  access_token = OAuth::RequestToken.new(signing_consumer, request_token.token, request_token.secret).get_access_token(:oauth_verifier => 'verifier') # Use 'pin' instead of 'verifier' for PIN authentication
  oauth_token, oauth_token_secret = access_token.token, access_token.secret

The public APIs defined in version 1.0 of this gem will maintain backwards compatibility until
the next major version, following the best practice of {Semantic Versioning}[http://semver.org/].
You are free to continue using the 0.9 series of the gem, however it will not be maintained, so
upgrading to 1.0 is strongly recommended.

Here are a few more reasons to upgrade to 1.0:

* Ruby 1.9 compatibility: All code and specs now work in the latest version of Ruby
* Support for HTTP proxies: Access Twitter from from China, Iran, or inside your office firewall
* Support for multiple HTTP adapters: NetHttp (default), Typhoeus, Patron, or ActionDispatch
* Support for multiple request formats: JSON (default) or XML
* More flexible: Parse JSON or XML with the engine or your choosing via MultiJSON[http://github.com/intridea/multi_json] and MultiXML[http://github.com/sferik/multi_xml]
* More RESTful: Use HTTP DELETE (instead of POST) when calling destructive resources
* More methods: Request any documented resource in the Twitter API
* Send all requests over SSL: Faster[http://gist.github.com/652330] and more secure
* Improved error handling: More easily retry after rate-limit errors or fail whales

For more information, please see the full documentation and examples of the gem's usage below.
== Help! I'm getting RuntimeError: "Did not recognize your engine specification. Please specify either a symbol or a class."
If you're using the JSON request format (i.e., the default), you'll need to
explicitly require a JSON library. We recommend {<tt>yajl-ruby</tt>}[http://github.com/brianmario/yajl-ruby].
If you're using the XML request format, we recommend requiring {<tt>libxml-ruby</tt>}[http://github.com/dvdplm/libxml-ruby] for dramatically improved performance over REXML.
== Documentation
=== http://rdoc.info/gems/twitter
== Usage Examples
  require 'rubygems'
  require 'twitter'

  # Get a user's location
  puts Twitter.user("sferik").location

  # Get a user's most recent status update
  puts Twitter.user_timeline("sferik").first.text

  # Get a status update by id
  puts Twitter.status(27558893223).text

  # Initialize a Twitter search
  search = Twitter::Search.new

  # Find the 3 most recent marriage proposals to @justinbieber
  search.containing('marry me').to('justinbieber').result_type('recent').per_page(3).each do |r|
    puts "#{r.from_user}: #{r.text}"
  end

  # Enough about Justin Bieber
  search.clear

  # Let's find a Japanese-language status update tagged #ruby
  puts search.hashtag('ruby').language('ja').no_retweets.per_page(1).fetch.results.first.text

  # And another
  puts search.fetch_next_page.results.first.text

  # Calling certain methods requires authentication. To get your Twitter OAuth credentials,
  # register an app at http://dev.twitter.com/apps
  Twitter.configure do |config|
    config.consumer_key = YOUR_CONSUMER_KEY
    config.consumer_secret = YOUR_CONSUMER_SECRET
    config.oauth_token = YOUR_OAUTH_TOKEN
    config.oauth_token_secret = YOUR_OAUTH_TOKEN_SECRET
  end

  # Initialize your Twitter client
  client = Twitter::Client.new

  # Post a status update
  client.update("I just posted a status update via the Twitter Ruby Gem!")

  # Read the most recent status update in your home timeline
  puts client.home_timeline.first.text

  # Who's your most popular friend?
  puts client.friends.sort{|a, b| a.followers_count <=> b.followers_count}.reverse.first.name

  # Who's your most popular follower?
  puts client.followers.sort{|a, b| a.followers_count <=> b.followers_count}.reverse.first.name

  # Get your rate limit status
  puts client.rate_limit_status.remaining_hits.to_s + " Twitter API request(s) remaining this hour"
== Submitting an Issue
We use GitHub to track for bugs and features. Before submitting a bug report or feature request,
check to make sure it hasn't already been submitted. You can indicate support for an existing
issuse by voting for it. When submitting a bug report, please include a Gist[http://gist.github.com/]
that includes a stack trace and any details that may be necessary to reproduce the bug, including
your gem version, Ruby version, and operating system. Ideally, a bug report should include a pull
request with failing specs.
=== http://github.com/jnunemaker/twitter/issues
== Submitting a Pull Request
1. Fork the project.
2. Create a topic branch.
3. Commit your feature or bug fix.
4. Add specs for your feature or bug fix.
5. Run <tt>bundle exec rake spec:rcov</tt>. If your changes are not 100% covered, go back to step 4.
6. Submit a pull request. Please do not include changes to the gemspec, version, or history file. (If you want to create your own version for some reason, please do so in a separate commit.)
== Copyright
Copyright (c) 2010 John Nunemaker, Wynn Netherland, Erik Michaels-Ober, Steve Richert. See LICENSE for details.
